if you want to outrank your Google ads
competitors and Pay Less in the process
then mastering quality score is going to
be an essential part of your success you
see when it comes to Google ads ad rank
which is what determines if your ad is
in the first spot or nowhere to be seen
is a factor of your Max cost per click
bid times your quality score times your
expected impact of AD extensions so
understanding how to be successful at
quality score is a third of your success
in terms of your ad actually appearing
on the Google search results page in
this video I want to walk you through
what quality score is and give you the
8020 of what matters and how to actually
audit your quality score so that you
understand how to be successful and
improve it on an ongoing basis now if
you're watching this video and you're
wondering why you should be listening to
me my name is Sylvie Perez I'm the
founder of act conversion in addition to
being a digital advertising Academy
where we have free courses taught by
legit B2B practitioners we also have an
agency where we run ads for companies
like active campaign mix panel Nets byy
Checker and we're managing seven figure
ad budgets in Google ads in paid search
uh driving free trials driving demo
requests and what I'm going to walk you
through in this video is the exact same
thing that I would tell my team
internally on how to actually improve
and optimize their quality score so
let's dive into it step number one is
you need to go into your Google ad
account navigate over to the keyword
section and then once you're here in the
keyword section you're going to want to
make sure you modify your columns and
you're going to add quality score ad
relevance landing page experience and
expect a click-through rate to your
columns so you can understand what your
quality score performance performance is
now giving you a quick 60-second crash
course on quality score quality score is
a number from 1 to 10 one being the
worst 10 being the best and it is a
measure of relevance so quality score is
this genius thing that Google released
in 2005 which basically created what I
consider the Holy Trinity of search
advertising where basically Google is
rewarding advertisers with lower cost
per clicks and high higher ad rank more
visibility based on how well of a job
they do in terms of being relevant to
what people are searching for so quality
score that number from 1 to 10 what
determines if your ad has a or your
keyword has a quality score of one or 10
is a factor of three different
components which you can see right here
you've got ad relevance you've got
landing page experience and you've got
expected click-through rate so your ad
relevance is how relevant is your
keyword to your ads it's really just a
factor of making sure if you're bidding
on a certain keyword you have it
reflected in your ad copy so that way
you create that strong message match
landing page experience takes into
consideration not just your ad and the
keyword but also the the landing page
itself so not just the superficial of
having the keyword in your landing page
that of course matters but it's also
taking into consideration other things
as well so it's also taking to
consideration the page load time of your
landing page is it desktop and mobile
optimized um how much content do you
have on the page how is it structured in
terms of your title tags your H1s your
H2S very much the same components that
go into crawling websites organically on
the SEO side is how Google makes these
determinations on how good of a job
you're doing in terms of your landing
page experience and then the last one
here is expected clickthrough rate
expected click-through rate is Google's
perception on how often they think your
ad will be clicked this one is the least
in your control and in my experience
auditing Google ad accounts this is
usually the number one thing that hurts
quality score across the board more than
anything else and we can get into how to
improve each one later in this video but
just understand this is Google's
perception on how well they think you're
going to perform for this keyword based
on your ad performance and your
historical click theough rates so go
ahead and modify your columns and add
these different variables to your
keyword column and once you've done that
you're going to go aad and click
download and we're going to download
this into an Excel CSV and I'm going to
show you how to use pivot tables I
learned this from Brad gettis years ago
and it's still applicable and relevant
and helpful and I'm going to show you
how to do this for free using Excel so
that you can in the future if you want
to get fancy you can use some sort of
tool you can automate this somehow but
it's really not necessary as a starting
point you can just use Excel so go ahead
and download this into a keyword report
and let's open that up okay so I'm here
in my keyword report that I just
downloaded and what I'm going to do is
I'm going to clean this up and I'm going
to format it into a table so then we can
summarize it into a pivot table if
you're not familiar with Excel this is
this is a skill that as an Advertiser
you just need to know the Dividends are
uh substantial so try to follow along as
best as you can but the first thing
we're going to do is we're going to
delete these total rows here on the
bottom of our table just so it doesn't
disrupt any uh data and if you're not
familiar with Excel you can just hold
command go down it'll allow you to go up
and down to the side if you hold shift
with it then you can Mass bulk uh select
different items now what we're going to
do is we're going to select our entire
table and we're going to summarize into
a pivot table so I'm going to click here
on my first column and I'm going to do
command a Orr a I believe if you're on a
Windows and then it's going to select my
entire table and I'm going to click
insert pivot table click okay and now
what it's going to do is it's going to
allow me to now summarize all of the
information so each individual keyword
has its own quality score across you
know thousands of campaigns depending on
how active you are and being able to
just cross reference that all
individually on a line item by line item
basis is just not feasible so that's
where we use pivot tables to summarize
large amounts of data to allow us to get
insights really simply so once you have
your pivot table here what you're going
to do is you're going to search for
Quality score and you're going to add
quality score to your rows and then
you're going to look up keyword and
you're going to add keyword to your
values and now what you're going to do
or sorry let me reverse that you're
going to do quality score on your rows
keyword to your values and then now what
you're going to do is you're going to
remove blanks so if you notice like in
this case I have 200 105 enabled
keywords for this account and you can
see 56 have this dash dash which is a
blank uh these are keywords that maybe
they just haven't rendered in the
auction they haven't gotten enough
Impressions so there's not an Associated
quality score which is completely normal
so just go ahead and uncheck that so now
we're only seeing keywords that actually
have an assigned quality score so just
from this one action and we're going to
go deeper in this you can see that I can
already understand more or less what's
the health of my quality score overall
in this account for my enabled keywords
so just to easily follow along I'm going
to update this to say quality score and
then now what I want to do is I'm going
to go ahead and I'm going to add a
percentage formula just to really
understand what's my percentage by uh
quality score so let's go ahead and do
that we're going to just take B4 and
we're going to create an absolute
reference of b14 the total and I'm going
to just drag this down and then I'm
going to put it as a
percentage we have a pretty good amount
of keywords that are above set this is
actually really healthy in a lot of
accounts they they don't have this and
ideally kind of what my rule of thumb is
is ideally 70% of my keywords have above
seven quality score and you can see that
is the case here with this account uh
but if you let's say this wasn't the
case and you know we we do have 9% of
our keywords with a quality score of
three uh five and and 10% at six and so
on and so forth this is where we can
start to drill down into those three
different parameters of quality score to
understand what's hurting our quality
score so uh assuming now the question is
all right uh why why don't I have you
know 100% of my keywords above seven
which by the way is not realistic and
the other thing to note too when you're
doing this analysis of quality score
right now we're doing it across all your
enabled keywords but just know you you
can't judge your account equally based
on the types of campaigns that you're
running so uh if you're running branded
search campaigns typically you will have
higher quality scores if you're running
competitive search campaigns typically
you have lower quality scores just by
the factor that you might not be able to
get away with having your keyword uh
reflect your competitor in your ad copy
because of trademark issues so just know
that quality score will vary differently
depending on the campaign theme um maybe
a topic for another day but this is how
you're going to get your overall quality
score and now let's go ahead and drill
into the variables ad relevance landing
page experience expect a clickthrough
rate to understand which one is hurting
us where do we need to focus our efforts
in terms of improving quality score so
I'm going to go ahead and now remove
quality score and I'm going to search uh
add relevance and I'm going to add
relevance here to my table I'm going to
remove the blanks I'm just going to
update my formula here so that it makes
sense now drag this down and get rid of
this and now I can see uh in this case I
have a 72% of my keywords have above
average ad relevance this is really
great uh if if you have above average ad
relevance this means you did a good job
grouping your ad groups and your
keywords and then writing relevant ad
copy to reflect your keywords ad
relevance is a 100% in your control in
terms of a factor that you can
manipulate so if you notice for your
account you have a lot of keywords that
are below average or average this might
mean that your ad groups have too many
keywords within it and you might need to
consider further separating them out or
you need to reflect and revise your ad
copy and create more headline variations
more descriptions to include the
keywords that have these below average
or average scores so you can try to
boost the the the relevance for those
specific keywords now from here what you
could do in your uh pivot table which is
quite nice is if you come into the pivot
table you can add a filter and you can
filter down further uh which is quite
cool so like I can come in here and I
can filter down further understand
what's going on and then you can also
here in your pivot table add a slicer
and you can add a slicer of keyword add
group so if you wanted to drill in
further and understand which keywords
have a below average um you know
relevance you can use a slicer to do
that or what you can simply do is you
can come here and you can drag keyword
underneath ad relevance and then it'll
allow you to
see what are the keywords that have the
worst ad relevance underneath those
different variables so you can kind of
drill into the data further which is
quite nice so this is our ad relevance
so in this case we don't have an ad
relevance problem we're looking pretty
healthy moving on to the next thing
we're going to do landing page
experience and I'm going to go ahead and
adjust my table and I can see in uh this
instance I'm going to just update my
formula so in this case for landing page
experience uh 62% of my keywords have
above average landing page experience
that's really healthy so overall we did
a good job with this account in terms of
our quality score but if this wasn't the
case let's say the majority of my
keywords had an average or below average
landing page experience then this means
I need to go to work on actually
improving the post-click experience so
kind of a a quick checklist of things
for you to consider when improving your
landing page experience is number one
how is the actual performance of the
page in terms of speed is it mobile
optimized is it desktop optimized
there's a great tool that I recommend
that you check out called page speed
insights if you're not familiar with it
and it'll allow you to drop a URL and
it'll give you a lot of technical
recommendations to improve the
performance of that specific page and um
news alert a lot of times it's on mobile
you got to do a lot of work on mobile to
get it uh have having a really good
score so that's one really uh tactical
thing I recommend second thing is you're
going to want to make sure that you're
following SEO best practices for your
landing pages to improve your landing
page experience so just like how Google
crawls Pages organically they're using
same the same mechanisms the same
crawlers to to essentially achieve the
same goal uh so you want to make sure
that your page is technically written
you're using H1s H2S h3s uh you're
differentiating things you have you know
um anchor links when relevant you have
um like text for your images so they
understand what's the the image
referring to and all these different
kind of technical nuances around SEO you
want to apply the same methodology and
thought process
to your landing pages as well uh
sometimes in my experience when it comes
to like dealing with pages that just
can't get a good landing page experience
a lot of times it's just a matter of you
need to add more content to the page so
if you have a very small page typically
you're dinged in terms of a landing page
experience versus if you have a longer
form page we typically find better
experience in terms of landing page
experiences so just something to take
into consideration the one thing I will
mention though is like you need to
balance landing page experience and
conversion rates CU at the end of the
day you could have an amazing landing
page experience but if you optimize your
page just to satisfy quality score and
no one's converting then you're kind of
defeating the purpose right and quality
score really should just be seen as a
leverage of cost right it's it's a
mechanism that allows you to cut down
cost to increase visibility but if
you're not converting in the first place
and you're not driving a positive return
improving your quality score isn't going
to be the game Cher right there's
there's a flaw in terms of your approach
and your economics and your strategy so
it's really just a lever for you to pull
on so that's our landing page experience
and then finally what we're going to do
is we're going to do our expected
click-through rate so we're going to
drop that in here and you can see it's a
little bit different now and and for my
experience this is usually the hardest
one to improve and you can see we've got
uh 7 and 31 we got 38% that are average
or below average for expected
clickthrough rate so in terms of
improving expected click theough rate
this takes a lot of work so there's a
few factors here number one you want to
make sure you're using add extensions
you're using as many ad extensions as
possible the the the idea here is
expected clickthrough rate is a measure
of how Google perceives your ads will be
clicked so the more things you can do to
improve your clickr rate the better off
you'll be at improving your expected
click through rate ad extensions make
your large uh make your ads larger they
provide more information to the Searcher
so that allows you to get a higher CTR
so add extensions to prioritize use as
many as you can but I would say site
links image extensions logo business
name structured snippet uh call outs all
great extensions for you to take
advantage of uh if possible and from
there the other thing I would recommend
is that at least minimum on a monthly
basis you are testing new ads on an
ongoing consistent basis because this is
where most people just kind of they
create some sort of ad on Google and
then they just forget about it and they
don't really check it but like actually
monitoring your clickthrough rate month
over month and then creating new ads to
beat your control it's this is like the
boring work that we know we should be
doing that we don't do and if you
haven't been doing it this is where it
comes to bite you in terms of your
quality score right here with this
factor of your expected click the rate
it's going to hurt you so add testing on
a consistent basis and then the third
and final one is just doing a better job
at writing ad copy so uh I've actually
created a separate video on how to write
uh responsive search ads and I talk
about strategic pinning but often times
most advertisers on Google their ads
just suck like just straight up and if
you did a better job at writing more
compelling ads you would get a higher
clickthrough rate which will allow you
to improve your expected clickr rate and
then I guess one bonus one here as well
is equally important in terms of the
effectiveness of your ad is your
targeting so if you don't have a strong
negative keyword list in place you're
going to be showing up for a lot of
irrelevant Impressions if you're showing
up for a lot of relevant Impressions
that means you're not going to get
clicks from those people anyways that's
going to bring down your overall
clickthrough rate which will come here
to bite you in the butt uh in addition
to that your match types how broad are
you being are you relevant are you are
you ready for that level of scale so if
you're using broad match or phrase match
but you don't have a strong netive keyw
list in place a lot of relevant Search
terms are appearing you might want to
consider dialing down to exact match and
then scale vertically through there
going across these different match types
so a lot to consider I hope this video
was helpful and it gave you a crash
course on how to consider and think
about quality score I wanted to make it
super practical and tactical because I
remember when I was for starting out
Google ads there was a lot of like Airy
fluffy videos on quality score and it
didn't allow me to understand how to
pragat pragmatically dissect and
understand how to improve my quality
score so that is why I wanted to show
you this method of using pivot tables
that I learned from Brad gettis years
ago and I still used to this day for a
lot of our client accounts and
prospective accounts that we're auditing
if you want to go deeper into quality
score then check out this article that I
wrote that goes into quality score and
it's basically what we talked about in
this video but it's written up for you
so you can kind of go through everything
step by step so definitely check this
out I'll have it in the description box
down below and if you're not a part of
AD conversion yet and you're a B2B
marketer and you want to level up your
advertising skill set then definitely
check us out at ad conversion.com and
join takes less than 90 seconds and
you're going to get access to all of our
free on demand courses taught by real
legit B2B practitioners that are in the
trenches running ads for different SAS
companies and B2B organizations so
thanks so much for watching I'll see you
in the next one